Mithril update 2026-06-03 (#792)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-06-03-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-06-03-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed the circuit keys caching for the SNARK circuit in the STM library and the removal of the helpers module of the SNARK recursive circuit. They continued work on the type consistency and naming alignment refactoring of the SNARK recursive circuit, the prover input of the recursive SNARK aggregation primitives, and the implementation of the SNARK-friendly genesis certificate.

The team also completed the enhancement of the support of the genesis verification key in the explorer. They continued work on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, the enforcement of the DMQ message id format, the prototype of the Cardano node ledger state certification, and the removal of the Mithril nodes support in `mithril-devnet`.

> Finally, the team worked on the optimization of the end-to-end tests for SNARK and on fixing flakiness in the CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team completed caching of circuit keys for the SNARK circuit in the STM library and removed the helpers module for the SNARK recursive circuit. They continued work on the type consistency and naming alignment refactoring of the SNARK recursive circuit, the prover input of the recursive SNARK aggregation primitives, and the implementation of the SNARK-friendly genesis certificate.

The team also completed enhancements to support the genesis verification key in the explorer. They continued work on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, enforcing the DMQ message ID format, prototyping the Cardano node ledger state certification, and removing Mithril node support in `mithril-devnet`.

Finally, the team worked on optimizing the end-to-end tests for SNARK and fixing flakiness in the CI.
```
